We conclude Virgil's The ENIAD today. And as we've discussed, Virgil is very much the antihomer. Okay? And so what the ENIAD is is really a a response to the Iliad and the Odyssey. Remember, Homer believes that love is the unifying force of the universe. It is a center. It's what gives you life. It get it's what gives you purpose and hope. For Virgil, what matters is the idea of piety or obedience to the gods and to your father. And as we discussed, Virgil sets up a very stark contrast between love and piety where they are competing forces. You cannot love and be pious at the same time. And piety is ultimately the the main centralizing force of the universe. If you are pious, if you obey the gods, then the world will be right because the gods have a divine plan for the world. And in the case of the Enniot, it is the founding of the Empire of Rome, which is Aeneas' mission and purpose. And so our role, our responsibility, our duty in life is just to follow this path of the gods, and then the world will be perfect. Okay? This will the Enniot will create the Roman Empire, which will then become the Catholic church. And the Catholic church will rule for over a thousand years, okay, the millennium. And during this thousand years, it is a time of conformity, of stagnation. And it is because in this time, what is often referred to as the dark ages, Virgil becomes the god of the Catholic church, the central organizing force. Why? Because every children sorry. Every child of the elite memorizes the in the act. And so every child perceives the world through the lens of the Enniac. And so what happened is to destroy this empire, a man will emerge to liberate the human imagination. And his name, of course, is Dante. K? And Dante will destroy the Roman Empire and the Catholic church with his masterpiece, the divine comedy. We will spend the rest of the semester reading the divine comedy. This is not something you can read by yourself. There's actually no point. You know, if I just give it to you and it's like, go read it, it will make no sense to you. We have to go through line by line, word by word for you to understand the melody comedy. Because not only is it poetry, but it's philosophy. And what poets will tell you is that a poem is this truth told with as few beautiful words as possible. So it could just be a few lines, but it could take you a lifetime to fully understand the true meaning of these lines. And that is what the divine comedy is. It's a very it's an epic poem, but each paragraph, each sent each each line is a truth, an internal truth onto itself. Okay? So we'll read Divine Comedy line by line, and we'll try to really understand it. But, again, the point of this class is not to tell you what the book rate books are. The the entire point of the class is to get you excited about entering a journey that's with books. That will that will take you entire lifetime. Okay? It will take you entire lifetime to appreciate the the genius of these great books. And, this class is is meant to be a starting point. Okay? So do not think at the end of of this class, oh, I've read Homer. I've read Virgil. I've read Dante so I know the great books. No. Okay? This is just the beginning. Alright. So where we are in the story of the Ennead is that Aeneas gets gets shipwrecked, and he becomes a a guest of Diddle, the queen of Carthage. And the two fall in love. Diddle falls in love with the fact that Aeneas is not just a great warrior and very handsome, but but also be because he's a great storyteller. He tells her the story of the fall of Troy. And the two fall in love, and Ditto has this burning passion for Aeneas. And the gods and the gods, basically, Juno, wants to thwart the possibility of the rise of the Roman Empire, and so she conspired to have Dido and and Aeneas consummate their passion for each other, and then they get married. But then, Jove, the kindergarten, finds out about this and says, no. No. No. This is not part of the plan. Aeneas is not supposed to fall in love with Dido, stay in Carthage, and build the Carthaginian empire. He's supposed to go to Rome. So he sends Mercury, the messenger of the gods, down to Aeneas and tells him, hey, man. What are you doing? This is not your duty. Do your duty. Okay? So this is where we are in the story. Okay? So let us read. Okay? Ivy, could you read read, please? Yeah. Mercury Mercury lashes out at once. You, so now you lay foundation stones for the soaring walls of Carthage, building her gorgeous city, doting on your wife, blind to your own realm, oblivious to your fate. The king of the gods whose power sways earth and sky. He is the one who sends me down from brilliant Olympus, bearing commands for you through the racing winds. What are you plotting now? Wasting time in Libya, what hope misleads you so? If such a glorious destiny cannot fire your spirit, if you will not shoulder the task for your own fame, at least remember Askinius rising into his prime, the hopes you lodge in Ilias, your only heir. Okay. Alright. So Aeneas, of course, is Aeneas' father, and Aeneas is the son, k, who will inherit the, legacy. I'm going to eat. You owe him Italy's realm, the land of Rome. This order is still on his lips. The god vanished from sight into empty air. Then Aeneas was truly overwhelmed by the vision, stunned, his hackles bristled with fear. His voice chokes in his throat. He yearns to be gone, to desert this land he loves, thunderstruck by the warnings, Jupiter's command. But what can he do? What can he dare say now to the queen in all her fury and win her over? Where to where to begin? What opening? Thoughts racing here, there, probing his options, turning to this plan, that plan, torn in two until at his wits end. This answer seems the best. Okay. So, again, Virgil is the anti Homer. And what I mean by that is that if Homer were writing this, then what Homer would emphasize is how emotional emotionally conflicted Aeneas is because he loves Diddle. He does not want to go. For Homer, love is above the gods. And what a human is is someone who aspires to love. And when we divide colony, what we will discover is this the reason why is because God is love. Okay? And there's an aspect of God in us, a candle that strives to return to the light, and so we seek love. And so for homework, doing a choice between going to Rome and finding a great empire or staying in Carthage and being with Diddle, obviously, you choose Diddle because that is the path to God. Right? And that's what happened in the Odyssey where Odysseus had an opportunity to stay with Calypso and have and live forever, but he chooses to return to Penelope. And when he returned Penelope, Penelope asked him, will you ever leave me again? And she and he says, never again will I leave you because this is my home. Love is where my heart is. Okay? So this is the, so but what the conflict is in Aeneas is, okay. I won't get the hell out of here. I've risen with fear because what I fear most is the anger of the gods. What I must do is be loyal to the gods and heed their command. So screw love. I don't need this. But there's a problem which is how do I actually tell Ditto? Alright? That's a conflict. Not should I leave Ditto, but like how do I get out of here without her bitching at me? Alright? And so what does he decide to do? He decides, I won't tell her. Yeah. That's it. I'll pretend this didn't happen. And then at night, I will just sneak away. And then, well, who cares what happens afterwards? Alright? So this is so the thing to notice is this is not human. Okay? There is nothing human about Ineus. What he is is he's like he's like a walking phallus almost. He's like James Bond, man. You know? He goes around, does his mission, sleeps with a lot of girls, and then runs off. Alright? So let us continue. Ivory? He summons Netheus, Sirgestus, staunch Siristus, gives mortars, Fit out the fleet, but not a word. Mustard crews onshore. All tackle set to sail, but the cause for our new course, you keep it secret. Yet he himself, since the dough who means the world to him knows nothing, never dreaming such a powerful love could be uprooted. He will try to approach her, find a moment to break the news gently, a way to soften the blow that he must leave. All shipmates snap to command, glad to do his orders. True. But queen, who can delude a lover? Soon caught wind of a plot afoot. The first to sense the Trojans are on the move. She fears everything now even with all secure. Rumor, vicious as ever, brings her word, already distraught, that Trojans Sorry. Sorry. You know what? Sorry. Lori. Are rigging out their galleys gearing to set sail. She rages in she rages in helpless frenzy, blazing through the entire city, raving like some main main driven wild when the women shake the sacred emblems, when the cyclic orgy shouts of Bacchus fire her on and Sitharron echoes round with maddened midnight cries. Okay. Alright. So certain things to notice. Okay? Bacchus is the god of creativity of god of creativity for the Greeks. So there are actually two gods of creativity in the Greek world. There's Apollo, and there's Dionysius Bacchus. Okay? Apollo is the god of logical creativity where you sit down calmly and then you write down your thoughts. Okay? That's a polo. Then you have pachyz who's the god of emotional rapturous creativity where you get drunk, you have a lot of sex, and then you express yourself. Okay? And for the Greeks, these are two aspects of creativity that you both need in order to fully achieve your human potential. Yes. You need to be engaged in meditation, in rational analysis, but you also need to fully explore the possibilities of your emotions, to just let go, to be crazy, to be frenzied. Okay? And what Virgil is saying is that we must that the abacus aspect is actually the worst type of emotion because it leads you into madness. Okay? Alright. So can we kill a reading, Ivan? I lashed you assails Aeneas before he said a word. So you traitor, you really believed you'd keep this a secret, this great outrage. Seal away in silence from my shores. Can nothing hold you back? Not our love, not the pledge when sealed with our right hands, not even the thought of ditto doom to a cruel death. Okay. Stop. Okay. Alright. So this line, not the pledge when sealed with our right hands. This is an illusion, of course, to right here. Okay. This is an illusion, of course, to the odyssey where Odysseus and Penelope meet again for the first time in twenty years. And Penelope basically says to Odysseus, convince me that you actually know my husband. And Odysseus says, well because of this, ornament that Penelope gave to Odysseus. Right? And that ornament of course is the pledge sealed with their love for each other. And this pledge, this memory, this bond is what carries them for all eternity so that even though they are a great distance from each other, their hearts are still conjoined together. And so what Ditto says is, does this pledge mean nothing to you? Inez. Inez, of course, is like, it it's a word. It's nothing. Alright? What matters is your oath to the gods. What matters is your loyalty to the gods. Alright. Alright. Keep going. Why labor to rig your fleet when the winter is raw to risk the deep wind, the north winds closing in? You cruel, heartless. Even if you are not pursuing alien fields and un unknown homes, even if ancient Troy were still standing still, who'd stale for Troy across such heaving seas? You're running away from me? Oh, I pray you by these tears, by the faith in your right hand. What else have I left myself in all my pain? By our wedding vows, the marriage we began, if I deserve some decency from you now, if anything mine has ever won your heart, pity a great house about about to fall, I pray you if prayers have any place. Reject this scheme of yours. Thanks to you, the African tribes, Nubidian warlords hate me. Even my own tyrants rise against me. Thanks to you, my sense of honor is gone, my one and only pathway to the stars, the renown I once held dear. In whose hands, my guest, do you leave me here to meet my death? Alright. Okay. So two things for you to remember. Okay? The first thing is that in the Odyssey, the journey where it ends, the destination is towards home, to be with Penelope again, to be a family again. Okay? And that is the end of this epic journey. But in the Ennea, it's reversed where you start off with a relationship, with love, and then you have to abandon love in order to go on this epic journey to to found the empire of Rome. Okay? So you see how it's it's inverse now. In the Odyssey, the entire purpose of your life is to return home and to be in love, to fall in love. Okay? But in the emiad, love is what you have to abandon in order to fully fulfill your destiny. Okay? That's number one. Number two is this. What Ditto is saying is, thanks to you, I've lost everything. Okay? So love, my love for you means I have to abandon my pride, my reputation, my own people. Without love oh, sorry. Based my love for you, I've become nothing. Okay? And this inverses the inversion of what happened in the Odyssey where because Odysseus sought glory and fame in war, he became traumatized with PTSD. He saw the horrors of war where innocent people, innocent families were destroyed because of of war, and that traumatized him. And what allowed him to resurrect himself, what allowed him to escape his trauma and rebuild his sense of identity is going home and finding love again. And this love is able to resurrect his worldview and give him the courage and the power to fight on. Okay? So this is the the opposite message of the, Odyssey. Okay? Alright. Let's let's so now k. So, Ditto is saying to Aeneas, you're abandoning me. You tricked me. I fell in love with you, and now you're abandoning me. And this is an innocent response. And and the human thing to do would be to show pity. Right? And say to Ditto, Ditto, I'm really sorry for what happened, but let's go together. Or maybe, ditto, I'll come back for you. Okay? Instead, he says the worst thing possible. Alright? Can you read it? Guest, that's all that remains of husband now. But why do I linger on until my brother Pygmalion batters down my walls or Irova strikes me off his slave? If only you'd left a baby in my arms, our child, before you deserted me. Some little anus playing about our halls whose features at least would bring you back to me in spite of all, I would not feel so totally devastated, so destroyed. The queen stopped, but he, warned by Jupiter now, his gaze held steady, fought to master the torment in his heart. At last, he ventured torment in his heart is not sadness, but anger. Okay? You want go ahead? At last, he ventured a few words. I you could have done me so many kindnesses, and you could count them all. I shall never deny what you deserve, my queen. Never regret my memories of ditto, not while I can recall myself and draw the breath of life. Okay. Come on, boy. I'll state my case in a few words. I never dreamed I'd keep my flight a secret. Don't imagine that. Nor did I once extend a bridegroom's torch or enter into a marriage pact with you. Okay. So what he's saying is I we did we did not have a marriage pact. Okay? We're not married. This is not true. They contemplate their relationship and everyone witnesses. So they are married. But he's saying, we're not really married. Keep on going. If the face had let me free to live my life, to arrange my own affairs of my own free will, Troy is the city, first of all, that I'd safeguard, Troy and all that's left of my people whom I cherish. The grand palace of Priam would stand once more. With my own hands, I would fortify a second Troy to house my Trojans in defeat, but but not now. Grinian Apollo's oracle says that I must seize on Italy's noble land. His Lycian lot say, Italy. There lies my love. There lies my homeland now. If you, a Phoenician, fix your eyes on Carthage, a Libyan stronghold, tell me, why do you grudge the Trojans their new homes on Italian soil? What is the crime if we seek far off kingdoms too? Alright. So what he's saying is this. Titto, if it were up to me, I wouldn't say it would be I I wouldn't say it would be either. Okay? It would up to me, I would be back in Troy, dying and fighting and dying for what I truly love, which is a city of Troy. Now that I've lost Troy, I must build an empire. You have your own empire, Carthage. Why stop me from building my own empire in Italy? K. So what matters is that love. What matters is power. That's why we live. That's why we exist. To seek more power. Love gets in the way and therefore love must be discarded. You ditto. I do love you, but you're in my way. Therefore, get out of my way. Alright? Alright. So now Ditto is distraught. She fell in love with Aeneas and broke her vow to her former husband, Sikhius. And now she knows her people don't respect her anymore, and she knows that the neighboring warlords have contempt for her. And they might even attack her because previously she rebuffed their advances, so they feel insulted. But at the same time, she's still desperate in love with Aemias. And she knows he can't he can't she cannot stop him from leaving for Italy. And so she decides eventually that her only solution is suicide. But she has a sister, Anna, who will keep watch over her. K? So she develops a very elaborate ploy to kill herself. Alright? K. Can you read, Ivory? And now what shall I do? Make a mockery of myself, go back to my old suitors, tempt them to try again. Beg the Numidians, grovel, plead for a husband, though time and again I scorned to what they're like, would then trail the Trojan ships, bend to the Trojan's every last demand. So pleased are they with all the help, the relief I lend them once. In memory of my service, past stands firm in grateful minds. And even if I were willing, would the Trojans allow me to board their proud ships, a woman they hate? Poor lustful. Can't you sense it, grasp it yet? The treachery of Lamedans breath breath. What now? Do I take flight alone, consorting with crews of Trojan horsemen in their triumph or follow them out with all my troops of tyrants throwing the decks. Yes. Hard as it was to uproot them once from Tyre. How can I force them back to sea once more, command them to spread their sails to the winds? No. No. Die. You deserve it. End your pain with the sword. You, my sister, you were the first, won over by my tears, to pile these swords on my shoulders, mad as it was, to throw me into my enemy's arms. If only I'd been free to live my life, untested in marriage, free of guilt, as some wild beast untouched by pangs like these. I broke the faith I soared to the ashes of Saikius. Wait. So, again, the idea here is for Homer, love is what gives you strength. Love love is what allows you to resurrect yourself. Okay? So the metaphor is love is the the pole of Odysseus. Right? Where this pole Odysseus has not touched for twenty years. But the moment he touches it, it gives him renewed strength, and he's able to assemble it very quickly and then shoot the target. K? That's the power of love. But here in the INIAC, love is simply opposite where by falling love, you disintegrate as a person. So when we first meet Ditto, she's a proud queen. And now she is a complete mess. She is emotionally falling apart. She's being driven into madness. She's like, should I go and beg the Trojans to let me on their ship and be a slave girl? Okay? So it is the complete fall of a queen. Okay? From a queen to essentially to a slave girl. She's seriously considering being a slave girl. I mean, it just means being near Aeneas. And, ultimately, she decides, no. My only option is to die. Okay? Alright. So she is contemplating killing herself, and the gods know this. And so what they do is they tell Aeneas in a dream, get out of here because we don't we don't want you seeing Diddle kill herself. Okay? Can you read? I I read. Such terrible grief kept breaking from her heart as Ineus slept in peace on his ship's high stern. Okay. So Ineus slept in peace, meaning he doesn't care. Do you understand? He was never in love with her. She was just a plaything. Keep on going. Benton departing now, all tackle set to sail. And now in his dreams, he came again, the god, his phantom, the same features shining clear. Like Mercury head to foot, the voice, the glow, the golden hair, the bloom of youth on his limbs, and his voice rang out with warnings once again. Son of the goddess, how can you sleep so soundly in such a crisis? Can't you see the dangers closing around you now? Madman, can't you hear the west wind ruffling to speed you on? That woman plot spawns her plot, mulling over some desperate outrage in her heart, lashing her surging range. She's bent on death. Why not flee headlong? Flee headlong while you can. You'll soon see the waves of chaos of ships, lethal torches flaring, the whole coast ablaze, if now a new dawn breaks and finds you still malingering on these shores. Up with you now. Enough delay. Woman to think there's always changing, shifting like the wind. With that, he vanished into the black knight. Alright. So Amy is is running away. Okay? And Diddle has resolved to kill herself. And this is her speech right before she kills herself. Okay? Can you read it out to me? You, son, whose fire scan all works of the earth. And you, Juno, the witness, midwife to my agonies. He could be greeted by nightly shrieks at city crossroads. And you, you avenging furies and gods of dying ditto. Hear me. Turn your power my way. Attend my sorrows. I deserve your mercy. Hear my prayers. If that curse of the earth much reach his haven, labor on to landfall. If Joe's in the faith's command and the boundary stone is fixed, still, let him be plagued in war by a nation proud in arms, torn from his borders, wrenched from Ilias' embrace. Let him grovel for help and watch his people die a shameful death. And then once he has bowed down to an unjust peace, may he never enjoy his realm and the light he yearns for. Never. Let him die before his day, unburied on some desolate beach. That is my prayer, my final cry. I pour it out with my own lifeblood. And you, my tyrant, hairy with hatred all his line, his race to come, make that offering to my ashes, send it down below. No love between our peoples ever. No packs of peace. Come rising up from my bones, you avengers still unknown, to stalk those Trojan settlers, hunt with fire and iron. Now or in time to come whenever the power is yours. Shore clash with shore, sea against sea, and sword sword against sword. This is my curse. War between all our peoples, all their children, endless war. Okay. Endless war. Okay. Alright. So the Emiad is first and foremost political propaganda. Alright? And so Rome's epic war is with Carthage. Rome and Carthage fought for about a hundred years the control of the Mediterranean. Ultimately, Rome will triumph over Carthage, and they will destroy Carthage as a civilization. They will burn Carthage down. And today, we have no memory of Carthage. Being so complete was the destruction. And Virgil is trying to explain to us why this had to happen. And it had to happen because Ditto put a curse on Rome and force her people to go to war with Rome. So it's not that Rome was vicious and savage in destroying Carthage. It was like the Carthaginians had a curse. They had a mission to avenge Dido. Okay? So let me explain to you how this propaganda works. In Carthage, understanding of Diddle, she's the founder. She's the queen of Carthage. What happened was that, you know, she her husband was killed in Phoenicia, so she and some refugees sought refuge in Northern Africa. So they found a city of Carthage. And they worked really hard to build a city, and she was very attractive. So she, won the attention of some local warlords, and they demanded her hand in marriage. And her response was to kill herself. And by killing herself, that her sacrifice emboldened her people to build a great city, but also, it won the respect of the local warlords as well. And from then on, everyone understood the Carthaginians as a free and proud people who would rather die for their liberty than than become a slave. Okay? So that's the Carthaginian understanding of Dido. Here in the Ennead, it is almost the reverse where Dido Dido's love for Ineus becomes a poison. It poisons her soul, and it leads her to poison her people as well. And rather than give them freedom, she enslaves them into a mission to avenge her. Okay? So it's basically inversion. Alright? So that's what the Indian is doing. It's inverting Homer, but it's also inverting history to serve the political purposes of Rome. Alright. Alright. So we come to the ending of Inaad. So with this with the sort of diddle, what what Virg what Virgil is doing is inverting the story of the Odyssey. Now we come to the ending of the Iliad. And here, Virgil is going to invert the story of the Iliad. Okay? Remember, recall what happened in the Iliad where Achilles tricks Patroclus into sacrificing himself, and this allows Achilles an excuse to enter the battlefield against Hector. He kills Hector, and he believes that this is the height, the apex of his glory. But instead, it causes him in to fall into a deep depression. It's really Priam, promising willingness to forgive him because of his love for Hector that frees Achilles from his guilt. And the two, Achilles and Priam, cry together, and they become friends because of this. Okay? So the Iliad is fundamentally a story of the curse of power, the evil power, and the ability of love to both redeem and to save. What Virgil's gonna do is take a story of the iliac inverted. Okay? So it so it ends actually with with an analogy to the battle between Achilles and Hector. Okay? So in the iliac, it's between Achilles and Hector. But here, it's gonna be between Aeneas and Ternus. Okay? So what happened is that Aeneas lands in Italy, and the Latin tribes see Aeneas as his great hero. And the king there, Latinas, marries his daughter to Aeneas. But the wife, for whatever reason, like, the woman in the in the in the the in all all the villains. Okay? The the wife, the queen, has already promised her daughter to Ternus who is another warlord. And so it starts off a war between the Trojans and Chernus. Okay? And ultimately, this leads to a final conflict, a great battle between Aeneas and Chernus. Okay? So the this is the very ending of the Aeneas. Okay? Okay. Can you can you read, I agree? As he hangs back, the fatal spear of Aeneas streaks on, spotting the lucky opening he had flung from a distance, all his might and main. Rocks heaved by a catapult, pounding city ramparts never stormed so loudly, never such a shattering bolt of thunder crashing forth. Like a black whirlwind churning on, that spear flies on with its weight of iron death to pierce floor edge and about of the rim of the round shield with its seven plies and right at the thick of Ternus' thigh it whizzes through. It strikes home, and the blow drops Ternus and the blow drops Ternus down to the ground, battered down on his bent knees. The Rutulians spring up with a groan, and the hillsides round grow back grown back, and the tall groves far and wide resound with the long drawn moan. Turners lowered his eyes and reached with his, like, with his with his right hand and begged as a client. I deserve it all. No mercy, please. Turned his pleaded. Seize your moment now. Or if some care for a parent's grief can touch you still, I pray you. You had such a father in old entrances, pity Donus in his old age and send me back to my own people, or if you would prefer, send them my dead body stripped of life. Here, the victor and vanquished, I stretch my hands to you so the men in Lytium have seen me in defeat. Lavinia is your bride. Go no further down the road of hatred. Okay. Alright. Alright. Okay. So, again, this is rewriting of a battle between Hector and Achilles. But in this battle, it is Hector who wins, and Achilles is basically begging for mercy. And what's really interesting is that to beg for mercy, Chernes basically uses the words of triumph from the Iliad. Right? Remember what prime says to Achilles is, I've kissed your hand. Have mercy for me. Look my face. Remember of your father Achilles. Remember your father Peleus. Okay? Same exact words. Right? Care for our parents' grieve. Okay? And I stretch my hands to you. Right? So so so basically, Virgil is plagiarizing Homer but he's plagiarized in a way as to invert and subvert Homer. Okay? So at at this point, Aeneas is drawn to pity. Right? Because his weak enemy, Chernus, has submitted himself before him. So in his heart, he's like, you know what? I defeated him. He's been destroyed. He's lost space. He's lost credibility. I can let him go. I've won. Okay? And that's what he wants to do. He just wants to let him go. But this is the very ending. Okay? This is the very ending of the INIAD. And the ending is surprising because from for for many scholars, they read this. They're they're like, this is not an end. This is too abrupt. And they think, like, Virgil was not able to finish the idiom. But what I'll show you is that, no. You're reading the the idiom improperly, incorrectly. We do not believe this is the full ending. Okay? This is not the ending. K? Can you read it? I read. Okay. Aeneas, ferocious in armor, stood there still shifting his gaze and held his sore sword arm back, holding himself back to Esternus' words began to sway him more and more When all at once, he caught sight of the faithful sword belt of Pallas swept over Pallas' shoulder, gleaming with shining studs Aeneas knew by heart. Wait. Sorry. Pallas Pallas is the the version of Patroclus. Remember how Patroclus died and that enraged Achilles? Well, Palace is a friend of Aeneas who fell in battle with Ternus. And Ternus, to celebrate his victory over Pallas, stole the sword belt of Pallas. Okay? So and Aeneas recognizes this. Keep on going. Young Pallas, whom Ternus had overpowered, taken down with a wound, and now his shoulder flaunted his enemy's battle emblem like a trophy. Aeneas soon has his eyes drank in that plunder, keepsake of his savage of his own savage grief. Flaring up in fury, terrible in his rage, he cries. Decked in the spoils who stripped from one I loved. Escaped my clutches. Never. Palace strikes this blow. Palace sacrifices you now, makes you pay makes you pay the price with your own guilty blood. In the same breath, blazing with wrath, he plants his iron sword held deep into his enemy's heart. Turned as his limbs, winds limp, and the chill of death. His light breath fled with a groan of outrage down to the shades below. And that's it. This is the ending of the Enneap. And, again, scholars are confused by this. Like, how how could the, ethic end like this? It's a very long epic, twenty four books, and this ends with the death of Tarnas and nothing more. And it's confusing because scholars and lit and literary critics are taught to believe that a good book has, an epiphany and a catharsis. Okay? Epiphany, catharsis, and a resolution. Basically, a character recognizes himself and changes for the better. K? It's it's almost like a death and letting go of the past. And so scholars read this and, like, become a little confused. Where is the epiphany? Where is the catharsis? Where's the resolution? And the answer is because you're misreading the INIAP. First and foremost, it is a work of political propaganda. So how has INIAS changed as a person? Well, the change is this. Previously, whenever Aeneas has a doubt. Okay? Okay. Like, for example, he is changing his emotions. Each time this happened previously, the gods had to intervene. Right? So remember how Aeneas is back in Troy, and he's witnessed the killing of his king, Pryor. And he's really angry. And then he sees Helen. And he wants to kill Helen because he understands that Helen is the cause of all the death and destruction in Troy. And he he wants to, like, just kill her. And then what happens? His mother, Venus, intervenes and says, no. Ineus, you must stop. There's a mission for you. Go complete your mission. And then Ineus is like, fine, mother. I'll I'll I'll go home. And then when he goes home and he sees her, his son, Ilias, he wants to return and fight the Greeks because he doesn't he wants to protect the city. And then Ilias, there's a sign from the gods, Ilias, his hair is on fire. Okay? It's an image. And this tells Ilias, no. Your son is destined for great things. You must fulfill the mission. Again, when Aeneas is with Dido, he would just wanna stay stay with Dido and build up Carthage. And so Jupiter has to send a messenger, Mercury, to tell him, no, Aeneas. No. Go to Italy. Okay? So each time that Aeneas went off mission or he has his own ideas, the gods have to intervene. What makes this an epiphany, a Carthage's revolution is the fact that here when Ineus wants so mercy, when in his heart, he's like, he this is a pitiful man. It gives me no pleasure to kill him. It gives me no glory and honor to kill this pathetic man. He recognizes, no. I must kill him because it is a duty. This is the it is the will of the gods. Now he has become fully pious, And that is the epiphany. Okay? I must abandon all pity. I must abandon all emotions. I must abandon my own soul if I am to serve the gods. He is now the perfect soldier. And that's why Virgil wrote the Enneagram because it is a piece of propaganda. It's a piece of brainwashing, indoctrination where you read it and you go on the same journey as Enneagrams. And step by step, you let go of everything that makes you weak. Your humanity, your willingness, your desire to love someone, leak throw it out. Your pity, your sense of decency. Get rid of it. Okay? And once you do, once you've claimed yourself of all human emotions, then you can serve the gods completely. You are now fully pious. And as such, you can now complete your mission. Alright? So that's the power of the Enniac. You may know what's happening, but as you memorize it because back then, the way to educate yourself was just to memorize memorize the poetry. You became Aeneas himself. K? You transform yourself from someone who was a human to someone who is now basically a robot. Okay? Does that make sense? Okay. Any questions? Yeah? Can can can can you yeah? Yeah. I think it's true that, like, Aeneas, he didn't fail. And but Sithor is, Ternus because he killed him later. But I I I mean, I think that is still because, like, he loved Pallas, his friend who was killed by Turnus. So that's also kind of feeling. Right? That's an emotion that and that's contributes to Turner's desk. So isn't that different from what you said about maybe Aeneas being a robot and fulfilling his fate? Okay. Yeah. Alright. That's that's a good point. Okay? So your point is well, Aeneas loves his friend, Pallas. And as a result, it's his love for Pallas that drives Aeneas to kill Chernias. Right? That's fine. That makes sense. But go back to Lilia. Right? Where Achilles is saddened in anger by the death of Patroclus, and he kills Hector. Right? But then what happens? He falls into deep depression because in his heart, he recognizes that you don't avenge someone you love by killing someone. That's not how the universe works. You if you truly love someone, you do not turn the memory of that person into hatred and violence. You celebrate the person's life by being open and generous with others. Okay? This is something that Dante will will explain. This is a very hard idea to understand. Okay? But if you truly love someone, love means that you cannot do something evil. Love is pure good. If you do something evil, it means you actually don't wanna love that person. Okay? Does that make sense to you? You truly love Pallas as a person. You would not use him as an excuse to kill someone. Alright? Same thing with with with the Iliad where Achilles thought he loved Patroclus, but he was actually using Patroclus as an excuse to kill H4. And in his heart, knows that. Alright. This is really confusing to understand, but when we like Holly, it will make sense to you. Alright? K? Alright. Any more questions, guys? Okay. Yeah. So that's a great question, and it shows you how, basically, in this world, this is a world of anti love. Because you've been you've received an education in utility. Right? Obedience. Compliance. But what you have not received is an education in love. What is love? How do we know we're in love? What draws us to love? K? And that's what the great books are about. The great books you read Homer and Dante, they really think deeply about what love is. Because in love is where God is. Alright? K? So so, again, by by asking this question, what what what you're really doing is revealing the sort of education you've you've received. When your mind, you think that what is right is one of utility and where when when one of compliance. If Palas, my best friend, died, then I need to seek vengeance against the person who killed him. Okay? But I know it's hard to understand, but that is but you've been brainwashed to think that. That's not actually true. If your best friend were to be killed someone else, to demonstrate love to your best friend, you would actually forgive that person. Okay? And I I I I know it's a hard idea to understand, but when when when we read the line comedy, it'll become more obvious. Okay? K. Any any more questions, guys? Alright. So let me explain the plan from the comedy, which we will end the semester with. Okay? So there'll be four lectures on the line comedy. So I'll I'll be doing a lecture every two weeks. Alright? And then for the other classes, we'll just be reading the line comedy line by line by line. Alright? Okay. Alright. So, well, we start with the blind comedy on Friday. Alright? Very good. Do do you understand? Okay. It's very hard idea to understand. Okay? But it's hard it's hard under I didn't understand just because I just say this, but but but you've been brainwashed and