So together, we've read the first half of the Iliad. And today, I gave you an assignment. Right? So I have three questions for you guys about Achilles. The first one I the first question is, imagine yourself as Achilles. How are you similar? What experience in your life is very similar to that of Achilles? And you said that Achilles is almost a mirror to you where, you love playing soccer, but one day you felt humiliated, so you stopped playing soccer, and that tore at your heart. K? And and your phrase was pride and vulnerability. And that shows that by reading the Iliad, it gives you tremendous insight into yourself as as well as the nature of the human heart where arrogance and insecurity are two sides of the same coin. Right? They're bunk they're they're bundled together. K? Another question is, imagine Achilles' childhood, and you said that Achilles, when he was young, he was all he was probably very rebellious, very imaginative, and that's that's true. K? He's always testing boundaries. He has a very vivid imagination. And the last question is, imagine Achilles today. What would he be doing? Okay? And here, the answer is very interesting. The answer is that he's prob probably trying to be an Olympian athlete. Okay? So the obvious answer would be he's trying to be a soldier because he loves war. But what you recognize is that, no, what Achilles really wants to stand out and be admired by everyone. He wants to be famous, and so it makes more sense to be an Olympian Olympian athlete than it does to be a soldier. But you also recognize that being an Olympian athlete has a lot of restrictions because you need coaches, you need sponsors, you need to follow a certain regiment. And Achilles is a very independent minded person, and so he would rebel against all this authority, all this structure, all this conformity, and so he probably fail in today's society. Okay? So the entire point of this exercise is to show you that what a great book does is excite your imagination. It helps your imagination peer deeply into your own human heart and see how complicated, how complex, how dark it is. It also allows you to imagine Achilles as a whole person. You don't know him. You've never met Achilles, and Achilles is honestly a fictional character. He never existed, but he's real to you so that you're able to imagine his past, his childhood, and you're able to experience what he experienced. What's even more powerful is that you're able to imagine Achilles into our world and see him as a living and breathing human being. So that's what a great book is. A great book is composed of characters that are real to you and make the world more real to you. They excite your imagination that allows you to think much more deeply into yourself as well as more imaginatively understand the world around you. Okay? So now the question then is, how does this happen? What are the mechanisms behind all this? Okay. So there was a very famous American literary critic named Harold Bloom. He was at Yale. He actually taught at Yale when I was there. I studied English literature at Yale. And I actually sat in on a class of his. K? But he is considered the most famous American literary critic. And his his his explanation for what a great book is, what was a great book? A great book is something that helps us become human. So and what he means by that is in a great book, the characters are different because the characters are able to hear themselves speak. K? Hear yourself speak. K? Those were his words. What does it mean to hear yourself speak? It means that as I'm speaking to you, there's also a part of me that steps back and analyzes what I say. K? It has to make sense to me. It has to make sense to you. And we call this consciousness. Okay? To be human means be conscious. But to be conscious is ultimately an act of imagination. Because while you're speaking, you have to step back. K? We we actually call this disassociation. You have to disassociate, meaning, basically, that as you are speaking, as you are in this world, a part of you, almost like a ghost, steps away and observes the entire scene. And not only am I imagining myself speaking, but I'm also imagining what is happening inside your mind, your heart as I'm speaking. My effect on you. Okay? Alright? So let's look at how this applies to the Iliad. Okay. So in in the first book of the Iliad, A. Manon and Achilles, they are having an argument. They're having an argument because Agamemnon stole or kidnapped a girl. The father demanded a ransom demanded to ransom her back. Agamemnon broke the rules of war, of piracy, and said, no. I like her. Screw you. I'm the king of kings. I'll do whatever I want. The father is a priest of Apollo. Apollo, starts a plague among the Greek soldiers. They're all dying. And Achilles says Agamemnon says, we're all dying, okay, on the shores of Troy. So you have to give the girl back. A man nine says, sure. I'll give her back, but now I want your girl in return. Okay? And this starts the main conflict of the Iliad. What's interesting is that how conscious they are. Okay? So what's happening is that this is a war council. And in a war council, the Greek generals get together and decide on policy. And so as Eggmanon is speaking, okay, if you observe his speech, he's doing three things at once. K? The first and most important thing is that he's responding to Achilles. Right? Achilles says, you have to give the girl back. Iman says, fine. I'll give the girl back, but in return, I want your girl. So that's that's a response to Achilles. He feels as though Achilles made him lose face, so now he wants to make Achilles lose face as well. Okay? But, also, what's important is that Eggmanon is considering how others are perceiving the interaction. Right? Why does Akemenon require or command Achilles' girlfriend? Because Akemenon does not wanna lose face amongst the others. Okay? So he recognizes that if he just says to Achilles, you know what, Achilles? You're right. He would lose face amongst the other generals. He would lose respect. And in this world, if no one respects you, you could get killed. Okay? These people are gangsters. So he recognizes that. In order to save face, I must now demand something from Achilles to show that I am his superior. K? He's so conscious of that as well. But also, he's he at the same time, he's gonna step back. Okay? And he's gonna be conscious of his own words to make sure that his words together make sense. That for him, it is coherent. Okay? And so what he says to Achilles is, why am I doing this? Because I love my girlfriend. Okay? You stole from me what I who I love, and therefore, I must enact a vengeance on you. K? So you see how coherent all this. He is saying to Achilles, to ensure that you understand that I'm your superior, I'm gonna take what you most prize. And then he's thinking about the reaction of the workouts to make sure that they that they understand that he's still a top boss. But he's also, in his head, ensuring that what he says is coherent in itself. Okay? That what he's doing has a rationale. The rationale is because I love her. Because you're you're stealing from me my goodness love. I love her more than my own wife, Calmestra. Okay? So you can see how coherent all this. And this is amazing if you think about it. Right? And this is what makes Eggmannan a real character to us. Alright? But the other thing is that Achilles behaves the same way. Okay? He's he is alive in the scene. He is listening to Eggman Manon, and his response is this. And so I'm risking my life for you. You gained you gained most of the treasure. You gained most of the profit from this war. I take a little bit, and now you're stealing that little bit from me as well. K? So why is Achilles saying this? Achilles is saying this as response to egomenon, but he's also saying this in order to win sympathy from the others as well. Right? And he's also doing this because he's conscious of who he is. K? They're trying it's a it's a battle of worldviews. K? Worldview. What they're really trying to do is, through their speeches, they're trying to control reality. K? Through their speeches, they're trying to impose the reality on others. And that's why this is such a emotional, violent scene between the two. Okay? And then what happens, which is even more amazing, is that A. G. Menon hears Achilles speak, and then what he does is that he responds to Achilles using his own memory and experience. Okay? And what he says to Achilles is, Achilles, you say that you came here to fight for me, but we all know that you are vain. You're a narcissist. You're an asshole. You came here to win glory for yourself. You're just using me as an excuse, as a pretext in order to win glory on the shores of choice. That's when you really came. So don't give me this crap about you making all these sacrifices for me. You can't make sacrifices for others because you're a selfish asshole. Okay? And then Achilles' response is that, fine. If you do that, then I won't fight for you anymore. So you can see how real this is. K. And, again, what's amazing is that this all comes in the mind of one person, Homer, the poet. K. So imagine this where as I'm speaking to you, I'm able to mentally lift off and absorb and observe the entire class. Where not only am I hearing myself speak. Okay? And I'm measuring and observing the effect of my words, but I'm also able to go into your mind one by one and think about how my words are changing your reality. How they're impacting your emotions, how they're impacting your memory, and think about their impact on you and how they will guide your behavior and actions tomorrow, ten years from now. Okay? But what's even more amazing is that as this is happening, Nestor, right, Nestor, who is the one of the older generals, he comes into this scene, and he tries to reconcile Eggmanon and Achilles. Okay? So not only are the two main characters have a life of their own, but the observers have a life of their own as well. So in the Iliad, what's amazing is that not only are the main characters alive, but every single character, whether it's Odysseus, Hector, Priam, Nestor, they're all alive as well with real emotions and real feelings and real experiences. Okay? And the reason why and we know this is that we're if this is true, then we're able to look back at how this came into being, the past. And we're also able to make predictions about the future. And all this is coherent. Okay? So based on this, we will now know that the major conflict in the Iliad is the one between Agamemnon and Achilles, where they're struggling for control over narrative, where Achilles wants everyone to believe that he is doing everything he can to save the Greeks. He's a hero. And Amanon is trying to get everyone to believe that Achilles is just a selfish asshole. K? And that's what leads them to behave the way they do, including suicidal behavior. Because remember, as you read, Hector and the Trojans are coming to burn down the ships of the Greeks. Okay? They do that. Every single Greek will be killed by the Trojans. And even at this point in time, both Akemenon and Achilles refuses to give up their narrative. Okay? They insist they're right. So that when Odysseus comes to Achilles and begs Achilles, please come back and join us. We'll give you all the money in the world. Eggman Manon has promised his daughter to you. We'll give you all Troy after we conquer Troy. And Achilles says, no. No. No. No. I want Agam Manon to come and apologize. If he's not willing to come and apologize to me, then screw all of you. Okay? So you can see how human and how real this is, and this is important for us because now we're able to step back and observe ourselves as well as others. We have greater imagination. We have greater empathy. We have greater curiosity. K? And that's the power of a great book. And this is how the Iliad created the greatest greatest civilization on Earth in history, the Greek civilization. Okay? Alright. So any questions be be before I move on about this? Okay. Now, what I I want to discuss is, okay. How did Homer do this? Because this is a great mystery that has confused scholars for centuries. We all know the Iliad is one of the greatest books ever composed, but we don't know who Homer is, and we don't know how he did this. There are some speculated that Homer were many people. Okay? So there's confusion as to who who Homer is. The Greeks themselves call Homer the teacher, and he consider they consider him the father of the civilization. So we know that Homer is a was a real person, But we know almost nothing about him. Okay? So what I'm gonna do now is speculate as to how he was able to do all this. Okay? How was one human mind able to construct entire universe with real people by himself? Okay. Alright. So, to understand this, let's discuss how identity, how personality, how cautious is created. Okay? So, basically, what happens is that we have experiences. K? And these experiences become short term memory. And then what happens is that our brains will filter these memories into emotions. Okay? They're basically you will index your experiences according to their emotional strength or value. K? So happy, sad, angry, whatever. Okay? Alright? So in other words, something really important for you for you to understand is that your memories are your emotions. Memories that create emotions in you will come into you and help create your identity. But if more but memories that have no emotions, you will never remember. You'll just throw it out. Okay? And then together, these memories will create your identity. K? And different combinations of these memories will create different identities. The reason why is that different memories are indexed in different locations. K? So your identity in a in a school will be different from your identity at home or your identity when you go to America. Okay? Because you need different identities to navigate different landscapes. Okay? Does that make sense? And together, this will create your worldview. Your worldview is just your identity, who you are, how you perceive the world, how you perceive yourself. And this helps you make decisions. This helps you navigate social relationships, and this determines how you behave. Okay? Does does it does this make sense? Right? Okay. Alright. So this is basically the way that we understand how our personality develops. But there's certain problems with this understanding. K? The first major problem with this is the sorting mechanism. Okay? Basically, why do we respond to different experiences with different emotions? It doesn't make sense. So you have the same experience, but you respond to but you can respond, with different emotions. K? So you might get a fifty on a test. Some of you will be really sad, but some of will be, like, really happy. Like, well, I thought I thought I was gonna get ten percent. Now I got fifty percent. Okay? Alright. Some of are, like, glass half empty. Some people are are, like, glass half full. So that determines how we perceive the world. But the question then is, where does this personality come from? Okay? Why are some people optimistic? Why are some people pessimistic? And people are born like that. Now people and and and you your response could be like, well, it's just genetic because your both of your parents are optimistic, you're optimistic. Both your parents are pessimistic. Okay? Now you feel like your parents and ask yourself, does your personality come from your parents? And the answer is it doesn't. Okay? The answer is that you're actually different from your parents. I have three kids. I know this because all three of my kids are different from both my wife and myself. Okay? So the question is, where does this personality come from? That's the question number one. We don't know the answer. Question number two, which is more problematic is, okay. We know how this process works, but where are the memories stored inside the brain? Right? We know how this works psychologically, but you could but the question then is, where in the brain does this happen? And the answer is, we don't know. We don't know. We know when the brain breathing happens. We know in the brain where language acquisition happens. We don't know in the brain where memories are formed and stored and accessed? We don't know. That's really weird, guys. Okay? Alright. So that's that's that's point number two, storage of memories. Okay? K? And then question number three is empathy. K? Or theory of mind. This is really a theory, but it doesn't really help us explain how empathy works. Right? It doesn't really help us understand how we're able to perceive the emotions of others. Now you can say, well, it's because we have these different identities, and so we just look at our own identity. But that's it doesn't really help us understand what's going on. Okay? So at least three major problems created by modern psychology. K. The first is where does our personality come from? Because our personality are our filter. Right? Our personality determines how we perceive the world emotionally. Second problem is where does this all happen inside the brain? We don't know. And the third problem is empathy. Okay? How are we able to perceive into the emotions of others? Alright? Okay. And we don't know. So I'm gonna propose a theory to you today. Okay? Which goes back to last class. Okay. Imagine this. Imagine that we are composed essentially of, two selves. Okay? Two selves. There is the body, and the body comes materially. Right? Okay? We know that. We know that through evolution. But then our consciousness comes from our in actions with the universe. Okay? So our brain, it's not a storage facility. It's a for the vibrations of the universe. Okay? And we call this consciousness. And remember last class, we discussed how this consciousness the universe is conscious. Right? And there are infinite dimensions to this consciousness, and this is where our memories are stored. So a very simple analogy is think about the Internet. Right? You have a computer, a laptop, and some memory is stored on the laptop, but most of it is actually stored in the cloud. And how the computer works is by interacting with the Internet, your computer becomes more conscious. Okay? Does that make sense? Same thing here where you just use the human brain and just assume that everything comes from the human brain, nothing nothing makes sense. But if you assume that the human brain is merely an antenna to the universal consciousness, it makes a lot more sense. K? And how and not only that, but by imagination, by consciousness, we're able to implant ourselves into the universe. Okay? And different emotions, implant themselves in different wavelengths, different dimensions. K? Does make sense? So the combination of your emotions now leads to a unique imprint in the universe. Okay? And different personalities will obviously have the same imprint in the universe, and we call this archetypes. K? Archetypes. This is, from, Carl Jung, who is a Swiss psychologist. Okay? Carl Jung. K? The word he uses archetypes. K? They're different personalities, and they are accessing as accessing the same parts of the universe, and so they behave the same. That's why certain people look alike. Okay? If you're an evil person, you look you have a certain look to your face. Right? If you're a good person, you have a certain look to your face. K? If you're clever, you have a certain look. Okay? So archetypes. And so what's happening is that what Homer is doing is that he's opened his mind to the universe, and therefore, he's able to access all archetypes. Okay? We all do this with empathy, but Homer's able to do this at a greater level than everyone else. Okay? And then he's able to transplant these archetypes into the world of the Iliad. And that's how he's able to create what he does. A word we have for these people are prophets. Right? What are prophets? Prophets are those who bring the truth of the universe onto our world and construct it in a language that allows us to access this truth eternally. Okay? So in this time in history, poets are prophets are teachers. These are the same function. Okay? Where where a where you're accessing the truth of the universe and you're spreading this truth for words that enable the construction of civilization. Okay? So in mass and and we think this is true. Why? Because think about what's how amazing it is that the Iliad was written twenty five hundred years ago. Okay? It was written twenty five hundred years ago by this guy, Homer, living in the Mediterranean, the Aegean. Right? Different culture, different time, but the Iliad is able to speak directly to you as a Chinese person living in China in the twenty first century. Not only that, but you're able to imagine Achilles as yourself. So if we assume that the universe is conscious and it is infinite and eternal, and there are archetypes that exist within this universe that Homer is able to draw on, then that makes sense now. Okay? This is both spaceless and timeless. This consciousness. Alright? Is this clear to you guys? Okay. Because then because if if this is not true, then you have to answer answer the question. How was Homer able to do this? Right? How was he able to construct characters like Achilles, Odysseus, Agamemnon that are so real that they feel alive to us? That they're so real that we can hear them speak to themselves. So real that they themselves can hear themselves speak to others. Okay? Any questions? Ask a question to make sure you you understand this theory. Okay? This is actually a very complex theory. Okay. We're back on one. Yeah. Yeah. Just just speak. Mhmm. The quote unquote profits. So in this series, it's actually not a technically not a profit because they are not predicting future. Right? Because universe is spaceless or or timeless so that they're actually talking about the truths. Right? So they're not making predictions because all of them are already written down in the universe. Okay. Okay. So the word profit doesn't actually mean someone who who predicts the future. K? The the word profit actually means someone who speaks the truth. Speaks truth. Okay? Because for most of you of human history, when you say someone's a prophet and he speaks truth, what you're really saying is that he's speaking the word of God. Right? Because what is truth? Truth is the universe, which is God. So when you speak truth, you're speaking the universe. And what is the universe? The universe is past, present, and future altogether. It is beyond space and beyond time. So when you speak the truth, the truth is what has happened, what is happening now, and what will happen in the future. Okay? So the the way that you test his words is see if it happens. Right? And a lot of this truth is this moral truth where if you do evil onto others, evil will come onto you. Okay? So look at so the story of Achilles. Right? Where Achilles, he's stuck in a situation where he wants Aegion Mountain to apologize so that he can go fight the Trojans. Aegion Mountain refused to apologize. So Achilles, what does he do? Well, he sacrifices Patroclus. Right? It's a death of Patroclus that enables Achilles to go fight the Trojans. So he's done evil onto Patroclus. And because he's done that, evil will now come onto Achilles. Okay? So, yeah, you so we think prophets means speaking the future, but it's really speaking the truth. Right? Because truth is eternal. If you do evil onto others, then evil will have to come on to you. So it's both a prediction as well as a moral judgment. Okay? That does that make sense? And so the prophet, the poet, the teacher, again, same same idea where why why is the person a poet? Because how do you know it's truth? You know it's truth because it's beautiful, because it speaks to you. K. Do you understand? So when Homer is going around because this isn't an illiterate culture. Right? No. There's no writing going on. So what he's doing is he's going to different places, and he's telling a story of the ilead. He's speaking. And as he's speaking, it's like music to the listeners. It's beautiful. It's poetry. But it's beautiful because it's also truthful. Okay? Because they feel as though Achilles is a real person with real emotions. And then Achilles comes and helps them better understand themselves. Okay? So that's poet. The teacher is like, okay. How do you understand yourself? You understand yourself by understanding the iliac. Okay? By understanding the psychology, the motivations, the emotions of these individuals, you can better under understand yourself. And once you do that, once you're able to hear yourself speak, once you're able to have more consciousness, then that gives birth to civilization. Okay? Because not only are you able to imagine, but you're able to imagine with other people as well. So so if you look at Greek culture, whether it's Plato, whether it's facilities, whether it's Ischalis. Okay. Just the greatest thinkers, greatest intellectuals of Greek civilization. They're all derivative of Homer. Okay? They're all operating within Homer's universe and working off that universe. K? But their applications are different. So, for example, Fucidities, what he does is that he he writes in a very Homer way in that, his characters are always giving speeches. The difference, of course, is that Futhyphusidis is writing about real people, real events. Whereas Homer, he's just writing about people he's not writing, he's singing about people of his imagination that, are part of the Greek cultural, landscape. Okay? Does that make sense? Okay. Okay. Alright. So in literature, prediction and truth are the same thing. Right? If you're gonna speak truth, you can predict the future. Right? Because that's that's what truth is. Truth is eternal. Past, present, and future collide together. They converge on truth. Alright. Any more questions? Okay. Okay. So we have we have up to book sixteen for Friday. Okay?