We conclude the Iliad today. Alright. So remember that the Iliad, it's a war of wills. So the epic starts with the battle between Agamemnon and Achilles. And, they're trying to impose their will on each other. And it leads to disaster for the Greeks because Hector and the Trojans are now about to destroy them. And the Greeks led by Odysseus come to Achilles' ship and beg him to return to the battlefield. But Achilles wants Aegimon to come and apologize and kneel before him, which Aegimon is not gonna do. So Achilles says, no. But this leads to a conundrum because Eggemonaut is gonna apologize. The children are gonna come destroy the Greeks. Achilles needs I cannot have to apologize, in order to save face. Alright? So the Greeks and Achilles are all very anxious. So what Achilles does is he sends Patroclus to get the Greeks to come and beg some more. Right? But Nestor understands what Achilles is doing. He refuses to apologize, but he tells Patroclus, listen. We can't get Achilles to fight, but maybe you can fight for us. And we maybe that will save the day. Now Patroclus is very excited. Okay? Because he he's he's went all his life to outshine Achilles because all his life, he's been in Achilles' shadow. Right? But now his problem is how does how does he convince his superior, his commander Achilles, to go with the plan? Okay? So so this leads to a conflict, a battle of wills between Patroclus and Achilles. And remember, we read the speech last week, and I want us to visualize how the battle is being fought. Okay? So this is Patroclus, and this is Achilles. And if you if you read the speech, we will discover that this battle is being fought at three levels. Okay? There is the conscious, emotional level. Okay? Then there is the calculating manipulative, and then there is the strategic. Okay? Planning level. Alright. So imagine three different individuals together in Patroclus. The first person is the actor. Okay? The person who appears before Patroclus and cries like a girl. Right? Then there's the calculating, which is like, why am I doing this? I'm doing this because I want Achilles to agree to me to join the battlefield against the Trojans. Okay? And the strategic, okay, the old wise man sitting in the back is like, okay. What I'm gonna do is I'm gonna convince Achilles Achilles to agree that I'm gonna join the battlefield, and I'm gonna win honor. Okay? Does it make sense? Okay? The first person disappears before Achilles and does the acting. Second person is the one trying to explain the direction. Okay? The third person is the long term director. Okay? So think of this as the actor, director, and producer. Okay? Or the investor. What is my long term gain from this? Now Achilles is the same. Right? Because Patroclus cannot understand Achilles' mentality. Okay? So the actor in Achilles is like, why are you crying, Patroclus? This is not our war. The director in Achilles is, maybe I can trick Patroclus in helping me enter a battlefield. Right? And the producer is like, I want to win glory for myself. Okay? And it's all very subtle. But if you read their dialogue, if you read the debate, you'll recognize that this is all happening at once. But not only that, but if you examine your own life and the decisions decisions you make, you'll recognize that you're doing all three at once. Okay? Subconsciously. Alright? So Sigmund Freud would say that this is the id. Okay? The id is just the basic desire. Right? You want glory. You want sex. You want money. Okay? There this is the superego. Okay? And this is the ego. Okay? Or the maybe you can think of this as the conscious, subconscious. Alright? So we've known for a long time that we as humans operate at many different levels all at once. And so we don't really know why we do what we do. Okay? And so they are having this fight, and it's all at a very subconscious level. And what Achilles does is he says something to Patroclus, which as I said before, it's very weird what he says to Patroclus. Ultimately, agrees to Patroclus is going, and that's all he has to do. Okay? Then nothing would happen. Patroclus goes. He faces Hector. He realizes Hector is stronger than he is, and he retreats. Right? That's what should have happened, and that's what Nestor and the Greeks expect to happen. Right? And then Patroclus comes, and Achilles recognizes that he needs to join a battlefield because Hector is too strong. Okay? That's what's being planned. But what Achilles does is he adds an element to it which changes the dynamic of events. Okay? Which changes how things unfold. Okay? So, Ivory, can you read this? Okay. Once you have whipped the enemy from the fleet, you must come back, Patroculus. Even if Zeus, the thundering lord of Hera, lets you seize your glory, you must not burn from for war against these Trojans. Okay. Stop. Okay? This is what's happening. Achilles is implanting into Patroclus some new ideas. And these new ideas is, oh my god, Patroclus. Once you enter the battlefield, Zeus. Okay? Zeus is going to give you glory. Alright? He's getting is excited. Petrocacus is hoping to win some glory on the battlefield to prove his worth, to prove at least he's equal to Achilles. But Achilles is saying, oh my god, Petrocacus, it's possible that you could be better than me. It's possible that Zeus himself anoints you the greatest warrior in the world. It's possible, Patroclus, that you win all the glory for yourself. Okay? Keep keep on waiting. Mad men lusting for battle, not without me. You will only make Okay. So do not outshine me, Patroclus. I know all your life, you've wanted to be better than me or at least prove your eat my equal, but don't do that, man. Okay? I'm warning you. Do not prove you're better than me. Keep on going. You only make my glory that much less. Okay? You must not law you you you must not lust in the flesh and fire of triumph, slaughtering Trojans outright. Drive your troops to Troy. So imagine this, Patroclus. Once you enter the battlefield, everyone's gonna love you. You're gonna kill Trojans one by one, but don't do that because he will make me look bad. K? What if one of the gods who never die comes down from Olympus Heights to intervene in battle? The deadly archer loves his Trojans dearly. No. You must turn back. Soon as you bring the light of victory to the ships. Let the rest of them cut themselves to pieces on the plane. Oh, to God, father Zeus, Athena, and Lord Apollo. Not one of all these Trojans could flee his death. Not one. No Argive either. But we could stride from slaughter so we could bring Troy's hallowed crown of towers toppling down around us. You and I alone. K. So this little speech, okay, it's almost impossible to see to the naked eye, but it dooms Patroclus. Okay? Because what it does, it tells Patroclus, Patroclus, you have the opportunity to seek eternal glory. You have the opportunity to be better than me. In fact, you're probably better than me. Okay? And that gives Patroclus hubris. Right? And hubris is what's gonna get him killed because he will challenge Het Hector. Okay? Okay? No way does Achilles in this speech say, be aware of Hector. Okay? All he says is, hey. Zeus is gonna support you, and you'll be better than me. Okay? Now if Achilles is stronger than Hector, Patroclus can be stronger than Hector. Alright? And why does Achilles do this? Achilles understands that Patroclus, if he's young, he's impetuous, he's jealous, if he give you the opportunity, he will seek glory for himself, and therefore, he might get himself killed. And you know what? If he kills himself or he gets himself killed, good for me, Achilles. Right? Because now I have the perfect excuse to join a battlefield when when all the glory for myself. Okay? Do you understand? And this is impossible to see. No one the Greeks don't see this. The gods can't see this, but Trophies himself can't see this, and Achilles himself doesn't know he's doing this. Do you understand? Okay? So the question for us then is, how does this happen? How are we able to function at three different levels and do things that are invisible to ourselves and to others? Alright. How is it that we make decisions? How is it that we manipulate other people as well ourselves? K. Does that make sense? That's a question before us today. Alright. So let's look at the standard understanding of psychology. Okay? So remember, what happens is this. We have experiences, and then we turn this experience into memories. And memories are really emotions. Okay? And then these emotions are organized in a way that creates a identity. Alright? And different memories can create different identities. And together, we create the worldview, which is basically our personality or how we perceive the world. And our personality determines, our preferences, what we like, how we how we make decisions, and how we perceive the future. Okay? Alright. So this is a standard model of psychology, which you should you should learn in psychology class. Right? Alright. There's some issues with this. The first issue is how do you filter experiences? We could have all the same experiences, but the way we perceive these experiences are different, which leads to different memories. Okay? So what is the mechanism that allows for filtering? Okay? Second problem is that we know that memories are malleable and flexible. They're always changing. Okay? That's weird. Alright? So it's possible over the course of your lifetime, you go back to the same event, but each time you perceive it differently, which causes different emotional reaction in you. Alright? So why is that the case? So for example, maybe, you know, when you were young, your dad hit you by accident. Okay? And at first, you were really hurt, and you perceived it as your dad doesn't love you. But maybe then when you get older and you have your own child, you hit your child accidentally, and then you feel sympathy for your father. Okay? Do you understand? So the memory changes according to your own development. So when does that happen? Okay? And the third thing is the idea of imagination. So we know from memories, you can expand them outwards and create new worlds and universes. That's how we create novels. That's how you write essays. Okay? But how do you do that? Right? Because your material is limited, but the imagination is unlimited. Alright? So there are clearly some issues with the standard model of consciousness. Alright? Now this semester, we've learned a new model of consciousness. So let's take that model and apply it to the iliac and explain why they behave the way they do. Alright? Okay. So the model that we use is from Kant. And Kant says that rather being a passive observer of the world, meaning that we just absorb experiences and tune them in memories, we are active participants in reality, meaning that we create reality. Okay? And so through space and time, okay, which can be influenced by language and media. Okay? We churn the things into themselves. Okay. But things into themselves are just vibrations energy. Okay? Into the phenomena, things to us. Okay? Now there are certain problems with this model. The first problem, of course, is where does our space and time come from? Okay. We know that we create space and time on our brains, but why do our brains do that, and what's the mechanism of brain that does that? Okay? Number two is what is the nomena? Right? God says we can't see it, but what is it? And the third thing, of course, is if this is all subjective, meaning that we all create our own reality, how do we know we're creating our creating the same reality? Okay? And so to solve this problem, Hegel proposes this. Okay? Is the geist. A spirit. And the geist is what gives us space and time. Alright? So as we are interacting with the nomana, the nomana itself responds to us. Okay? Does that make sense? And that's how we can all see the same thing because it's the same force that we're acting on. Okay. So this is a bit confusing. So so let let's let's look at what what the Greeks say. Okay? So the Greeks have a metaphor for this. Okay? The metaphor is this. Imagine infinite number of people. Okay? And the consciousness extend extends infinitely. Okay? So different dimensions, different waves. Alright? So on one level, you are just talking to yourself. But another level, you talk talk to another person. Another level, you're talking to more people. Okay? And this goes on and on infinitely. Alright? Now remember that as you engage the geist, the geist talks back to you. K? What this means is that think of the Internet where whatever you produce is stored online, but you also have some memory on your own hardware. Okay? Alright. So this creates memories. Okay? So your memories is now part of the geist. And as a result, the geist is constantly evolving as you evolve as well. Alright. So it's like the Internet. It's dynamic. It's not set. As you engage the Internet, the Internet changes. Okay? And so what happens is that these memories are stored in the guys some are permanent. These these memories are extremely visual or very powerful. Okay? And that gives rise to new consciousness like gods. Okay? And there are higher gods. Alright? So these are maybe new gods. But then you have the old gods. Alright? And so the higher you go, there are different, consciousness or different, spirits. So the new gods are gods like Zeus, Apollo, Aphrodite. They actually interfere in human events. Okay? The old gods are older gods that have been there since the beginning of time. And they're things like honor, justice, fate, destiny. Okay? And they are stronger than the new gods. Okay? But then you go up higher and you have god itself. Alright? And how how do we understand god? We understand god as the immutable and unwritten laws of the universe. Okay? We don't know what they are, but they're like gravity. They're gonna be there to structure the universe. And so think of them as, like, good and truth, Okay? And beauty. Alright? So there are different levels to this. Why? Because as we engage the universe, the universe evolves, and we implant our memories into the universe. So even though we die, our memories are still there, and they're still living. We can access them at any time. Okay? So what is interesting about this is that the infinity of the universe is also captured in us. Okay? We are a hologram of the universe. Right? So the Internet is as vast. Right? But on our computers, we have a hologram, a replica of the entire unit Internet. Alright? Because we connect it to it all the time. We engage in it all the time. So in other words, whatever we do here, okay, impacts the entire universe. What if we do here, we'll have rep reparations throughout the entire universe, throughout all humanity. One good act by yourself can impact the entire universe itself because universe is conscious. Okay? Now we understand why Patroclus and Achilles are able to do what they do. Because if this is the universe, if this is our consciousness, then there are different spirits working within us. You understand? And so we are constantly able to, sorry. Let me do this. To operate in different dimensions. Okay? We're able to see far ahead. We're able to, focus on on right now. We're able to, be strategic and occupy different people. K? We are literally a universe onto ourselves. Does that make sense? Okay? Alright. So you're like, okay. I don't think this makes sense. Well, if you read the Iliad, okay, Homer actually reviews to you how this works. K. That's what poetry is. Poetry is a snapshot of this universe in motion. Alright? So what we're gonna do is we're gonna read together the shield of Achilles. Alright? So remember, Patroclus is dead, but Patroclus took Achilles' armor to the battlefield. So Achilles has no armor. So he talks to his mother, Thetis, and Thetis goes talk to Hephaestus, the great armorer of the gods in up in Mount Olympias. And Mount and Hephaestus is gonna design a shield for Achilles that will make him invincible. And the shield has living images. It's like a movie. Okay? It's not a picture. It's a movie where the images are constantly appearing over and over. Alright? So I I read k. This this is only a part of of the Skew. Okay? Can you read this? And you forged a fallow field, broad rich plow land tilted tilted for the third time. And across a cruise of plow men wheeled their teams, driving them up and back in soon as they'd reached the end straight. Okay. So really important guys. Okay? Right. He's using a lot of verbs. Right? Which says that this thing is in motion. Right? You can see how they're moving. Tilt. Sorry. Teal. Teal for the third time. Okay? So you can imagine the first or second time. Cruise or plowman wheel their teams, driving them. Okay? Moving. Okay? K. Do do you understand? It's all motion. It's all living. This is what our memories are. Our memories are constantly images in motion, changing, reacting. K. Imagining. K. Keep on going. A man would run up quickly and hand them a cup of honey honeyed, mellow wine as the crews would turn back down along the furrows, pressing again to reach the end of the deep fallow field, and the earth turned black behind them, like earth churn Churning. Like, I really Churning. Solid gold as it was, that was the wonder of Hephaestus' work. They keep on going? And he forged a king's estate where harvesters labored, reaping the ripe grain, suing their witted scythes. Some stalks fell in line with the reapers row on row and others to sheave binders skirted round with ropes. Three binders standing over the sheaves. Behind them, boys gathering up to cut swaths, filling their arms, supplying grain to the binders, endless bundles. And there in the midst, the king stepped her in hand at the at the head of the reaping rose, stood tall in silence, rejoicing in his heart. And not to the side, beneath a spreading oak, the heralds were setting out the harvest feast. They were dressing a great ox they had slaughtered while attendant women poured out barley generous, glistening handful strewn for the rebirth's midday meal. Okay. So we've said that this shield of Achilles is actually the soul of Achilles. Okay? What his consciousness is. What is inside his what is inside him. And what this is ultimately is a universe onto itself. Right? You have a lot of different characters. Right? The king, the woman. Okay? Just lots and lots of people. Okay? It's a universe onto itself. And we know the soul is composed of memories. What this is telling us is that these memories don't come from our experiences. These memories comes from part of your experiences, but also comes from the universe itself. Okay? These experiences, these memories only allow us to access the universe in dialogue with it. And as a result, we're able to absorb memories from elsewhere. Another way to understand this is that we are constantly living and dying. Okay? When we die, all we're doing is really shedding our own bodies and assuming new bodies. But our memories stay with us. Our experiences stay with us. The poetry in us stays with us and is constantly being rewritten. Okay? And that's where our power comes from. Our power, our will to live, our will to fight comes from the fact that we are conscious beings constantly in dialogue with the universe. That that is both infinite and internal. Okay? And this is what this poetry represents. Alright? Does it make sense to you guys? Alright. So this is only a snapshot, but, you know, he goes on and on, which tells us that we are extremely complex, sensitive, and multifaceted beings. We are the universe ourselves. Okay? Our consciousness is the universe. The universe is our consciousness. It's all interconnected. Alright? Does that make sense to you guys? Okay. Alright. So this is an idea we'll come back to later when we read the other great books. Okay? Alright. But, something something that I want to discuss is this. Alright. So Achilles jumps in the battlefield and he kill he kills Hector. Alright? And at this point, Achilles should be happy because he's killed the great Hector, which proves that Achilles is the greatest warrior in the world. He's now secured eternal fame. But then he does something really weird. He decides to mutilate Hector's body. He ties Hector's body to his chariot and runs, goes around the city of Troy. And that causes Priya and Mehecuba, the parents of Hector, to go insane. Okay? They're screaming at this devil. And the Greeks, okay, Odysseus, Agamemnon, are disgusted because for them, Hector is a great warrior. You respect a great warrior. You do not humiliate, mutilate a great warrior like that. Okay? Hector fought well in the battlefield. He never cheated. Okay? He was just fierce, and he was great. So he was respected among everyone. Okay? Also, when Achilles jumped back from the battlefield, Hector didn't run away. Hector stood his ground and died. Right? Everyone else ran back in in the state of Troy, but Hector was like, no. I must take responsibility for this defeat. So he stands, outside the gates of Troy. Everyone's shouting for Hector. Come back, you idiot. Achilles is gonna kill you. And Hector is like, no. I must face the consequence of my action, which is the greatest act of bravery in the Iliad. Right? Because he knows he knows he's gonna die. So everyone's look everyone's looking at this and saying, this is really terrible. Okay? So what's happened is Achilles has gone insane. That's the only explanation for it. And the Greeks tried to comfort Achilles by holding this funeral games for Patroclus. Right? But that doesn't really solve the problem. And now Achilles is in the he's depressed, basically. He can't sleep. He can't eat. He can't even cry for his friend. He's so overburdened by guilt. Okay? So that is the issue where you are connected with the universe. Okay? The universe is conscious. You are the universe itself. So when you make when you do evil. Okay? And he knows. He he in his heart knows he's the one who got Patroclus killed. He manipulated Patroclus into his death. Then you know because the universe knows, and this haunts you for the rest of your life. Okay? You cannot escape it. So when you're evil, God doesn't have to punish you because you punish yourself with a memory of it. Okay? Your soul burns with regret and despair and guilt and shame. K? Does that make sense? Alright? So now you have this other conflict emerging in the Iliad, which is, okay, Achilles is about to go insane. He can't sleep, but he doesn't know what he did wrong. He cannot omit that what he did because he doesn't he doesn't understand himself. Okay? So what happens now is interesting because if you read the Iliad, the gods decide that they have this great meeting. Okay? And decide that, you know what? We're gonna broker a peace between Priam and Achilles. Hermes comes and takes Priam into the Greek camp, and then Priam and Achilles meet. Okay? And and and this comes this is the ending of the Iliad. But the question then is, how does that happen? Okay? Is this being metaphorical or is it being literal? My argument to you to to is that it is literal. Okay? So let let let's play how this works. Alright. So this is Achilles. This is Priam. Okay? They hate each other. They could not be further apart. Okay? But then you have everyone else. If you go back to this model, okay, At some point, okay, Achilles and Priam, their thoughts will converge together. Okay? But this is the universe, so there are other consciousness within this universe. And they see the conflict in here, and they will now engage in a dialogue to resolve the differences between prime Achilles. Okay? And these are called the gods. Right? K. Does it make sense? The universe is full of these different memories that are classy living, and therefore, they can engage in debate, dialogue, and imagination. Okay? And so what they say is, hey, Priam and Achilles, you need to come to agreement. And then subconsciously, Achilles knows, okay. You know what? Priam's gonna come and talk to me, and Priam's like, I need to go and see Achilles. Okay? And now what happens is the universe has come to an agreement, and so therefore, the universe now will, create a reality around this agreement. K. Does that make sense? So what this means is a prime cannot walk directly from Troy to a degree camp, and what the Greeks will do is walk away pretending in C prime. Does that make sense, guys? Because the universe has instructed them, prime and Achilles must meet, therefore, you must make it possible for them to meet. So then, you know, the guard is sitting around. Prime's walking this way. He's like, I should tune that way. And then prime walks walks passing. Does it make sense, guys? Okay? Because we are, again, in constant dialogue with the universe. The universe has a plan, then we must obey this plan. Okay? And in China, we call this what? The mandate of heaven. Right? The mandate of heaven. It's the will of the gods that Prime and Achilles must meet and reconcile the differences so that the universe can continue on. Okay? Otherwise, the universe must stop at this point because Achilles is not going to give up Hector's body. Prime will only suffer because of this. Okay? Do you do you understand? And this is how the universe works. It's unbelievable if you think about it. Okay? But if you think about it really hard, it makes a lot of sense. Why do events happen the way they do? When you try to say, made it of heaven because it is God's will. Right? Okay. How do we explain in China Mao Zedong, who's this peasant, he was able to win this war in established People's Republic of China. Not only that, but during this war, he never got injured once. How do we explain that? K? There are all these things that happened in in history, and these these people come out of nowhere and like, wait a minute. Where'd this guy come from? How is he able to do what he does? The mandate of heaven, guys. Okay? There is a consciousness universe. There's a plan. There's an intention, a design to it. We all participate in its design. Okay? Right? The conflict now is there's a great injustice in the world where Achilles refuses to return Hector's body to Pria. And so everyone agrees. Both the Greeks and soldiers agree. We are gonna pretend that we don't see the meeting. Okay? Does that make sense? Do you guys do you guys understand what what's happening? Alright. Okay. So now we come to what is recognized as the greatest sorry. As the greatest ending in all of literature. Okay? This is the final battle between Priam and Achilles. This is the greatest battle in human history. Alright? These these are two people who hate each other. Priam saw Achilles murder Hector, his beloved son. But not only that, but Priam also witnessed Achilles kill many, many of his sons. Okay? And for Achilles, Prime is a great enemy. The person who stole, Helen from the Greeks, the person who start this war. So now they're gonna meet. This is the greatest battle in the Iliad. Okay? So, Ira, can you read please? The majestic king of Troy slipped past the rest and kneeling down beside Achilles, clasped clasped his knees and kissed his hands. Those terrible man killing hands that has slaughtered prime's as many sons in battle. Okay. So in the contrast. Right? Achilles slaughtered many of prime's sons in battle. Okay? And what the majestic king of Troy does is he kneels, kisses his hands. Okay? He kneels before Achilles. Priam is out behind Achilles. Priam could just take a dagger and stab Achilles in the neck and kill Achilles. He doesn't do that. Instead, he kneels before Achilles and kisses the hand, the very hand who killed all of his sons. Alright? Keep on going. Awesome as when the grip of madness seizes one who murders a man in his own fatherland and flees abroad to foreign shores to a wealthy noble host, and a sense of marvel runs through all who see him. So Achilles marveled, beholding majestic Priam. His men marveled too, trading startled glances. But Priam prayed his heart out out to Achilles. And what's the effect? Awesome. Okay? Okay. Achilles, the great warrior who bows to no one, he is stunned by this. He is defeated by this. He is awed by the majesty of Praia. Okay? Greatness does not come from defeating your enemies. It comes from forgiving your enemies. Alright? This is an act. Okay? This one act of kissing the hands of the man who killed all his sons. It's going to change the universe forever. Okay? One action is gonna change the entire universe and bring and bring peace and reconciliation to the world. Alright? And not only is Achilles stunned, but so are everyone around him. Okay? His men marvel too. Okay? So this is reverberating across the universe where you're far away, but, like, you feel as though an earthquake has happened. You feel as though something magical has happened, and it changes you for the better. Okay? So remember, what's happened is what has happened? When a group of madness seizes one who murders a man in his own fatherland and flees or brought to foreign shores to a wealthy noble host, and a sense of moral runs for all who see him. Okay? So what so there are people who do great murder. Okay? And so they have to run away. And when they run away, their crime follows them. They become slaves in a new land. But some people are able to become successful in that place. Okay? They will change their fate. So what this is saying is because Priam has the strength and the courage to forgive his great enemy, he's changing his fate. He's changing the fate of the world around him. K? And the idea here is as above, so below. Right? And this is a great secret of the universe. What we do today, what we do at this moment can change the course of history. Because if what we do is memorable, it will implant itself throughout the universe and be there for all future generations. Alright? And and that's what's happening. Okay? So what Homer is doing is he is drawing from the universe this memory and showing it to us. That's what the Iliad is. Okay? Iliad is a depiction of the universe in motion, a universe of consciousness. Alright? Keep okay. Keep on reading. I I agree. Remember your own father, great god like Achilles, as old as I am, past the threshold of deadly old age. No doubt the countrymen round him plague him now with no one there to defend him, beat away disaster. No one, but at least he hears you're still alive and his old heart rejoices, hopes rising day by day to see his beloved son come sailing home from Troy. But I, dear God, my life so cursed by fate. I fathered hero sons in the wild wide realm of Troy, and now not a single one is left, I tell you. Fifty sons I had when the sons of Akea came, nineteen born to me from a single mother's womb and the rest by other women in the palace. Many, most of them violent r's errors cut the knees from under, but one one was left me to guard my walls, my people, the one you killed the other day defending his fatherland, my Hector. It's all for him I've come to the ships now to win him back from you. I bring a priceless ransom. Revere the gods, Achilles. Pity me in my own right. Remember your own father. I deserve more pity. Wait. So Prime is the greatest king in the world. Why? Because he's willing to humble himself before Achilles. Right? Remember Agamemnon. This this this struggle started because Agamena refuses to be humble. He refused refused to admit that Achilles is right. He ref refuses to, apologize to Achilles. Okay. Okay? But Priam is the opposite of Eggie Manon. Okay? He's begging for Achilles' forgiveness even though he hates Achilles. And why does he do this? What gives him the power to ask for forgiveness, to beg Achilles? The answer is his love for Hector. Right? I he's doing this because he wants Hector's body back. Alright? So what animates, what unifies this conscious universe is love. Love is God, guys. To really access this universe, to really know this universe, you must love. Okay? Love makes you invincible. And so, Priam has the courage to come to Achilles, but he also has has the courage to beg Achilles, to forgive Achilles. Alright? And what Prime says is, remember your father, Achilles. Right? Okay? As I love Hector, you also love your father. And how and how and how does he know that? Because we're all connected by the universe. Okay? He's able to imagine the soul of Achilles. He knows that how Achilles loves his father, okay, as much as he loves Hector. So this is what allows him to come together. Alright? The love of Hector makes Pride imagine the love of Achilles for his father. Alright? And these are the two forces. Love activates imagination. K? So love is a unifying force of the universe. It brings us all together. The imagination is the animating force of the universe. It makes the universe alive. Okay? And that is our purpose in this world, to love each other and then to activate our imagination to create the the reality that that that we live in. Okay? A world where the pillar is love is perfect and it's just. Okay. Alright. You know Keep on reading, Audrey. I have enjoyed what no one on earth has ever done before. I put to lips the hands of the man who killed myself. So what he's saying is that this is a unique moment in history. No one has done this before, especially a king. A king submits himself before the murderer of his beloved son. Alright? And because it is unique, because it is a perfect distillation of a father's love for, his son, this will be remembered forever. Okay? This will become now part of the universe. And how? Because Homer is able to access it. Okay? This might have happened somewhere. He doesn't know where. It and this but this hap and this might have happened between two people. He doesn't know who. Okay? But he knows this happened. He's able to draw on this to create the Iliad. Do you understand? The universe are the living memories of great deeds. And Homer is able to create this by accessing this because they're all within us if we allow it to, be in us. Okay? Keep on going. Those words stirred within Achilles, a deep desire to grieve for his for his own father. Okay. So you see how how this work. When you imagine things, you see the truth for what it is. Okay? Taking the old man's hand, he jumps he gently moves him back. And overpowered by memory, both men gave way to grief. Priam whipped freely for man killing Hector, throbbing, crouching before Achilles' feet as Achilles whipped himself. Now for his father, now for Patroclus once again, and their sobbing rose and fell throughout the house. Then when brilliant Achilles had had his feel of tears and longing for it has left his mind and body Okay. So okay. So what's happened is that Priam has defeated Achilles. Okay? Remember, Achilles' great problem is he can't cry. He can't he doesn't know what he did wrong. He doesn't know how to express his guilt and and shame. Okay? But now that Prime has forgiven him, Prime has actually liberated Achilles. Okay? Before Achilles, his soul was trapped in evil. And now by forgiving Achilles, Prime has let his soul loose to reconnect the universe and therefore to return to its poetic self. Okay? You want going? Then he rose from his seat, raised the old man by the hand and filled with pity now for his gray head and gray beard. He spoke out wing words, flying straight to the heart. Poor man, how much you've borne? Pain to break the spirit. What daring brought you down to the ships all alone to face the glance of the man who killed your sons, so many fine brave boys. You have a heart of iron. Come, please sit down on this chair here. Okay. And so now the and now this is a resolution. Okay? This is the epiphany of Achilles. He recognizes his guilt. And now because prime is able to forgive him, he's able to forgive himself. And so he's become wiser, more gentle, more poetic, more generous. Alright? And this is what life is. This is what it means to be human. Alright? To to do battle with our own heart. Okay. So, let me talk, about what this all means. Like, who are we? Why are we here? Where are we going? So in the Buddhist and the Hindu tradition, the idea is that we are constantly reincarnating. Okay? And this world that we live in, it's one of pain, it's one of suffering, but it's one that gives us insight. It's one that trains us to be wise. It's one that allows us to have the memories to create a more divine universe. Okay? And we do that because we we incarnate and we assume different roles. Right? So maybe in this life, we are the murderer. Then for the next life, we are the murderer. Okay? In this life, we're a human. Next life, we are a plant. Then the next life is an animal. But it goes on infinitely until we've achieved wisdom. Okay? So in other words, the point of this life is to develop empathy. Okay? Because empathy leads to wisdom and enlightenment. Alright? But the great thing about a great book is it's a universe onto itself. And therefore, you can actually speed up the process of wisdom and enlightenment because by reading the Iliad, you can assume different lives. You can have different lives all at once. K. Does that make sense? So what makes the Iliad so powerful is that you're constantly switching perspectives. What today, you're Eggmanon, then you're Achilles, then you're Hector. Okay? And what's amazing is that Homer is a Greek, and he's speaking for the Greeks. But it ends from the perspective of the Trojans. Okay? It ends with Priam getting back Hector's body, taking it back to Troy, and everyone in Troy coming to see the body and crying. Okay? Especially, the wife of Hector, Akramaki. Okay? So, so this is the this this is the ending. Okay? Can you read? He he is prime. Okay? So he called and the crowd fell back on either side, making way for the for the wagon. So everyone's coming and crying over Hector's body, but he but he tells them to move away. Okay? Because they need to bury the body properly. So they so people depart like the sea, and heck and prime is able to move the body forward. Keep on going. Once they had borne him into the famous halls, they laid his body down on his large carved bed and set set beside him singers to lead off the laments, and their voices rose in grief. They lifted the dirt high as the women wailed in answer. And why aren't armed and Andrew Mackie. Andrew Mackie led their songs of sorrow, cradling the head of Hector, man killing Hector gently in his in her arms. Oh, my husband, cut off from life so young. You leave me a widow less in the royal halls and the boy only only a baby. The son we bore together, you and I so doomed. I cannot think that he will ever come to manhood. Long before that, the city will be sacked, plundered top to bottom Right. Because you are dead, her great guardian. You who always defended Troy, who kept her loyal wives and helpless children safe. All who will be soon carry who will soon be carried off in the hollow ships, and I with them. Okay. So this is how it ends. It ends be it ends with a prophecy. Okay? And this prophecy will turn out to be accurate, where the son of Heptar will die. Because that that's the way of war. Okay? When a city is conquered, all the men and all children are killed, and all the women are enslaved. K. So this is an Andrew Maki saying, I'm gonna be enslaved, and this is becoming the Trojan horse. Right? So the great hero of the the Trojans, Hector, is now dead. So the Greeks are gonna come and destroy off Troy. So you're a Greek. Okay? And all your life, you've heard about the great victory of the Greeks against the Trojans. Okay? The Trojan War is the most famous story in your life. Now suddenly this guy Homer, he tells you about he asked you to imagine what it's like to be a Trojan woman knowing that in a few months, your entire city will be sacked, your husband will be killed, your children will be murdered, and you'll be put on a on a on a ship to be enslaved while you watch your city burn. Okay? Think about the power of that. Okay? Think about what's happening in Gaza, in Palestine today. Right? Where the Israelis are bombing the Palestinians. They're killing a lot of children. And they think it's right that we do so because we are defending our land. Now imagine one day, they have a dream. They imagine themselves as the Palestinian who's being attacked for no reason. As a child who's lost his mother. As a mother who's lost her child. Think about the emotional impact on that. Okay? What this is is the big bang of civilization. Because when you read this, okay, when you're forced to switch perspectives, it's a violent assault on your own consciousness, your prejudice, your beliefs, your values all being destroyed at once, which allows you to access the entirety of the universe. Okay? Does that make sense? Only through trauma, only through pain, only through suffering can you access empathy and wisdom. And that's a great truth of the Iliad. But also, this is why the Iliad has to be a lifelong journey. Because it will take you to life life, entire life to appreciate the nuance, the beauty, the power of the Iliad. It'll take you a lifetime to understand the motivations, the, psychology of all the characters. Okay? These are all living beings. But if you were to spend your entire life doing so, I guarantee you, you'll come out a much more wise person who now has a universe in your soul, and that will make you invincible and eternal. K? But it's your choice. Okay? Alright. That's it for the Iliad. We'll we'll start the Odyssey next, okay, which is a continuation of the, Iliad. Any questions? Ask a question, guys. Come on. Do guys understand this? Does it make sense to you? I'm gonna ask a question to make to to make sure you understand what's what's going on. Okay. Alright. Alright. This was a lot to take in, but this will stay with you for the rest of your life. Okay? So over time, this will become much much more clear. Alright. So we start the on this next class. Okay?